dockerize waltz (#2)
ljubon/waltz: docker/DOCKER.md

> # Run Waltz

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Run Waltz as a container
```

### Pre Requisites

* Docker

> * Postgres DB instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Postgres DB instance (optional, can run in Docker instead)
```

# Configuration

> - Container will use default values to connect Waltz to DB and try to `update` Postgres database and `run` Waltz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Waltz container will use default values to connect its DB.
- By default it will try to `update` its DB and then `run` Waltz.
```

> - You can change this with providing environment variables to container or as part of [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can change this by providing environment variables to the container on the command line or as part of [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml)
```

## Default values and actions

>  Container will execute two commands `update` and `run`. First command will `update` the database instance running `liquibase` command with default parameters for PostgreSQL instance listed below. Second command `run` will execute `catalina run` database and `run` Waltz.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The container will execute two commands: `update` and `run`. The first command will `update` the database instance by running `liquibase` against it. The second command `run` will execute `catalina.sh run` to `run` Waltz.
The default parameters are listed below:
```

* `DB_HOST="postgres"`
* `DB_PORT="5432"`
* `DB_NAME="waltz"`
* `DB_USER="waltz"`
* `DB_PASSWORD="waltz"`
* `DB_SCHEME="waltz"`
* `WALTZ_FROM_EMAIL="help@finos.org"`
* `WALTZ_BASE_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8080/"`
* `CHANGELOG_FILE=_FILE="/opt/waltz/liquibase/db.changelog-master.xml"`

# Running

## Docker run

> Run waltz without updating database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run waltz without updating the database:
```

>     $> docker run -it ghcr.io/[OWNER]/[REPO]:postgresql run

Reviewer: We should put the 'real' image in here so that people can just copy/paste to try out Waltz. We should also not use the `postgresql` tag here to be consistent with `docker-compose.yml`.

```suggestion
    $> docker run -it ghcr.io/finos/waltz run
```

Reviewer: Also we should add some environment variables to show how to connect to an existing database instance (and use different values from the default to make that clear!)

Author: I believe that is shown few lines below (newer version):
```    
Update the database and run Waltz with new parameters:

    $> docker run -it ghcr.io/finos/waltz \
      -e "DB_HOST=existing_db" \
      -e "DB_PORT=5544" \
      -e "DB_NAME=demo" \
      -e "DB_USER=waltz" \
      -e "DB_PASSWORD=12345" update run
```

Reviewer: Yes, but we should do it for both, otherwise it looks like you don't need any env var to run waltz without updating the database.
Also, we should use something else than the default values for those variables, otherwise it doesn't really make sense. If you were to run those commands as-is, they wouldn't work (unless there is a server called `postgres` somewhere on your network in the same domain as you).
Let me know if I'm not making sense! 😅

Author: Something like this on your mind? @jgiannuzzi 
```
Update the database and run Waltz with fresh database:

    $> docker run -it ghcr.io/finos/waltz \
      -e "DB_HOST=IP_or_FQDN" \
      -e "DB_PORT=5432" \
      -e "DB_NAME=demo" \
      -e "DB_USER=waltz" \
      -e "DB_PASSWORD=demo" update run

Only run Waltz with pre-configured database:

    $> docker run -it ghcr.io/finos/waltz \
      -e "DB_HOST=IP_or_FQDN" \
      -e "DB_PORT=5432" \
      -e "DB_NAME=demo" \
      -e "DB_USER=waltz" \
      -e "DB_PASSWORD=waltz" run
```

Reviewer: yup, that sounds good! 👍 
maybe use `user` and `password` for the user and password — most important is that you use the same on both command lines 😄

Author: yep, make sense, got it all :D

> Run Waltz with updating new database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the database and run Waltz:
```

    $> docker run -it ghcr.io/[OWNER]/[REPO]:postgresql \
      -e "DB_HOST=postgres" \
      -e "DB_NAME=waltz" \
      -e "DB_USER=waltz" \
      -e "DB_PASSWORD=waltz" \

>       update run

Reviewer: Same remarks as above:
- use the 'real' image here
- change environment variables from the default to show how to connect to an existing database instance

> ## Docker-compose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Docker Compose
```

Reviewer: Also I would put the `Docker Compose` section before the `Docker run` section, as it's much simpler to use for most people

Author: agree, re-ordering in next commit

> To start you can use [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) and run it with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start Waltz with a Postgres instance in just one commande, you can use [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) and run it with:
```

    $> docker-compose up -d 

> Once container is up you can access Waltz dashboard on [http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the container is up you can access the Waltz dashboard on [http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080/)
```

- You can change this by providing environment variables to the container on the command line or as part of [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml)

## Default values and actions
The container will execute two commands: `update` and `run`. The first command will `update` the database instance by running `liquibase` against it. The second command `run` will execute `catalina.sh run` to `run` Waltz.

The default parameters are listed below:

* `DB_HOST="postgres"`
* `DB_PORT="5432"`
* `DB_NAME="waltz"`
* `DB_USER="waltz"`
* `DB_PASSWORD="waltz"`
* `DB_SCHEME="waltz"`
* `WALTZ_FROM_EMAIL="help@finos.org"`
* `WALTZ_BASE_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8080/"`
* `CHANGELOG_FILE=_FILE="/opt/waltz/liquibase/db.changelog-master.xml"`

# Running

## Docker Compose
To start Waltz with a Postgres instance in just one command, you can use [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) and run it with:

    $> docker-compose up -d 

Once the container is up you can access the Waltz dashboard on [http://127.0.0.1:8080/](http://127.0.0.1:8080/)

## Docker run

Run waltz without updating the database:

    $> docker run -it ghcr.io/finos/waltz run

Update the database and run Waltz with new parameters:

>     $> docker run -it ghcr.io/finos/waltz \

Reviewer: one more thing actually: the port should be exposed on the `docker run` command lines!
